Let’s Create a Simple Workflow

To get you started, we’ll make a basic workflow that runs whenever you push code to your repository. It will just print "Hello, World!" so you can see how it works.

Here’s what you’ll do:

    Create a Repository: If you don’t have one, go to GitHub, click the "+" in the top-right corner, and select "New repository." Name it something like learn-github-actions and make it public or private—your choice.
    Add a Workflow File: In your repository, create a folder called .github/workflows/ and add a file named hello-world.yml.
    Add the Code: Use the YAML below.
    Push and Watch: Commit the file and push it to GitHub. Then check the "Actions" tab to see it run.

How to Add It

    In your GitHub repository, click "Add file" > "Create new file".
    Name it .github/workflows/hello-world.yml.
    Copy and paste the YAML content above.
    Click "Commit new file" (use the default branch, usually main).
    Go to the "Actions" tab in your repository. You’ll see "Hello World" listed. Click it, then click the latest run to see the output: "Hello, World!".

What This Does

    name: Names your workflow so you can recognize it.
    on: [push]: Tells GitHub to run this whenever you push code.
    jobs: Defines what to do. Here, we have one job called build.
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest: Runs the job on a fresh Ubuntu virtual machine.
    steps: Lists the tasks. We have one step that runs a simple echo command.

Verify It Works

After committing, go to the "Actions" tab. You should see your workflow run automatically (because you pushed the file). Click on the run, expand the "Say Hello" step, and confirm it printed "Hello, World!".

Step 2: Set Up GCP Credentials Securely
Why This Matters

Your GitHub Actions workflow needs permission to interact with your GCP project. To keep things secure, we’ll use a service account—a special account for applications, not people. This ensures your personal credentials stay safe.
What You’ll Do

    Create a service account in GCP with the right permissions.
    Generate a JSON key for that account.
    Store the key securely in GitHub Secrets.

Detailed Steps

1. Create a Service Account in GCP

    Open the GCP Console.
    Select your project (the one with the subnets you want to manage).
    Go to IAM & Admin > Service Accounts.
    Click Create Service Account.
    Name it something like github-actions-deleter.
    Click Create.
    Assign it the Compute Network Admin role (this lets it delete subnets).
    Click Continue, then Done. No need to add users or keys yet.

2. Generate a Key for the Service Account

    On the Service Accounts page, locate your new account and click it.
    Go to the Keys tab.
    Click Add Key > Create new key.
    Select JSON as the key type.
    Click Create. A JSON file will download—keep it safe!

3. Store the Key in GitHub Secrets

    Head to your GitHub repository.
    Navigate to Settings > Secrets and variables > Actions.
    Click New repository secret.
    Name the secret GOOGLE_CREDENTIALS.
    Open the downloaded JSON file, copy its entire contents, and paste it into the value field.
    Click Add secret.

Verify

Your key is now securely stored in GitHub Secrets. You can use it in your workflows without exposing it.

It looks like you've successfully added your GCP credentials to GitHub Secrets under the name GOOGLE_CREDENTIALS. Now, I'll provide you with a GitHub Actions workflow file to delete the specified shared VPC subnets from your test GCP project. Below is the complete workflow file you can add to your repository.
delete-subnets.yml
yaml
How to Use This Workflow

    Add the File to Your Repository:
        In your GitHub repository, create a folder called .github/workflows/ if it doesn’t already exist.
        Create a new file named delete-subnets.yml and paste the content above into it.
        Commit and push the file to your repository.
    Run the Workflow:
        Go to the "Actions" tab in your GitHub repository.
        Find the "Delete GCP Subnets" workflow in the list.
        Click "Run workflow" and confirm the action.
        Monitor the workflow logs to ensure it completes successfully.
    Verify the Deletion:
        After the workflow finishes, check your GCP project to confirm the subnets vpc-prod-shared-ver-euw4-temp-testsubnet-01 and vpc-prod-shared-prod-euw4-subnet-0001 are deleted.
        You can verify this in the GCP Console or by running:
        bash

        gcloud compute networks subnets list --project=ica-shared-vpc-host-project

Important Notes

    The workflow uses the GOOGLE_CREDENTIALS secret you added, so no further authentication setup is needed.
    Ensure the service account tied to GOOGLE_CREDENTIALS has permissions to delete subnets (e.g., Compute Network Admin role).
    The workflow_dispatch trigger means you must manually start the workflow, which is safer for destructive actions like this.

Running GitHub Actions from the CLI Without Leaving the CLI

To trigger a GitHub Actions workflow directly from your terminal (CLI) without switching to a graphical interface, you can use the GitHub CLI tool (gh). This is a powerful command-line utility provided by GitHub that allows you to interact with GitHub features, including triggering workflows. Here’s how to do it:
Prerequisites

    Install GitHub CLI (gh):
        If you don’t already have the GitHub CLI installed, you can install it using a package manager or by downloading it from the official GitHub CLI release page. For example:
            On macOS/Linux with Homebrew: brew install gh
            On Windows with Chocolatey: choco install gh
            Or follow OS-specific instructions.
        Verify installation: gh --version
        Authenticate with GitHub: gh auth login (follow the prompts to log in).
    Workflow Configuration:
        Ensure your GitHub Actions workflow is configured to support manual triggering. In your workflow YAML file (e.g., .github/workflows/my_workflow.yml), include the workflow_dispatch event under the on key:
        yaml

        on:
          workflow_dispatch:
        If this isn’t present, you’ll need to add it and push the change to your repository.

Command to Run the Workflow

Use the following command in your terminal to trigger the workflow:
bash
gh workflow run <workflow-file> --ref <branch>

    <workflow-file>: The name of your workflow file in the .github/workflows/ directory (e.g., my_workflow.yml).
    <branch>: The branch where the workflow should run (e.g., main).

Example:
If your workflow file is .github/workflows/terraform.yml and you want to run it on the main branch, execute:
bash
gh workflow run terraform.yml --ref main
Notes

    You can run this command from the terminal within VS Code, keeping you "within the CLI" as requested.
    If your workflow requires inputs (defined under workflow_dispatch.inputs in the YAML), specify them with the --field flag, like:
    bash

gh workflow run terraform.yml --ref main --field key=value
To find the exact workflow file name, check your repository’s .github/workflows/ directory or list workflows with:
bash

    gh workflow list

This approach ensures you stay in the CLI environment while leveraging the same GitHub Actions workflows defined in your repository.